# 23 Feature Access Codes

**Feature Access Codes (FACs)**, also known as **star codes**, provide quick access to advanced calling features.

To use a Feature Access Code:

1. Pick up the handset or open the dial pad.
2. Dial the appropriate Feature Access Code listed below.
3. For features that require additional input (such as a destination number or PIN), follow the audible prompts to enter the required information.

Both the **PortSIP ONE app** and supported **IP phones** fully support Feature Access Codes.

***

### Feature Access Code Definitions

Feature Access Codes are defined **per tenant** and can be customized by the tenant administrator to meet specific business requirements.

To view or modify Feature Access Codes:

* Sign in to the **PortSIP PBX Web Portal** as a tenant administrator.
* Navigate to **Advanced > Feature Access Codes**.

***

### Feature Access Code Format Rules

Feature Access Codes must follow these formatting rules:

* The FAC prefix can start with any combination of `*` and `#`.
  * The prefix length must be **1 to 3 characters**.
  * Examples: `*`, `#`, `##`, `**`, `#*`, `***`, `###`, `##*`
* The numeric portion can contain **0 to 4 digits**.
* The total length of a Feature Access Code must be **between 2 and 7 characters**.

***

<table><thead><tr><th width="65">Code</th><th width="209.3333740234375">Feature / Service</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>*72</td><td>Call Forwarding Always – Activation</td><td>Redirects incoming phone calls to another number such as a mobile phone or another user within your company. After dialing the assigned code, dial the phone number to redirect calls to, followed by the pound key (#). Example: *7212345678 will always redirect calls to 12345678.</td></tr><tr><td>*73</td><td>Call Forwarding Always – Deactivation</td><td>Disables Call Forwarding Always.</td></tr><tr><td>*21</td><td>Call Forwarding Always to Voicemail – Activation</td><td>Sends all incoming calls to voicemail. e.g. dial *21 to forward to its own voicemail; *21102 will forward to extension 102's voicemail.</td></tr><tr><td>*34</td><td>Call Forwarding Always to Voicemail – Deactivation</td><td>Deactivates the Call Forwarding Always to Voice Mail service.</td></tr><tr><td>*90</td><td>Call Forwarding Busy – Activation</td><td>Redirects incoming phone calls to another number, such as a mobile phone or another user within your company, but only when you are engaged in another call. After dialing the assigned code, dial the phone number to redirect. e.g. *9012345678.</td></tr><tr><td>*91</td><td>Call Forwarding Busy – Deactivation</td><td>Disables Call Forwarding Busy.</td></tr><tr><td>*40</td><td>Call Forwarding Busy to Voicemail – Activation</td><td>Sends calls to voicemail only when you are already engaged in a call.</td></tr><tr><td>*42</td><td>Call Forwarding Busy to Voicemail – Deactivation</td><td>Deactivates the Call Forwarding Busy to Voice Mail service.</td></tr><tr><td>*92</td><td>Call Forwarding No Answer – Activation</td><td>Redirects incoming phone calls to another number, such as a mobile phone or another user, when you do not answer your phone. After dialing the assigned code, dial the phone number to redirect calls to, followed by the pound key (#). e.g. *9212345678.</td></tr><tr><td>*93</td><td>Call Forwarding No Answer – Deactivation</td><td>Disables Call Forwarding No Answer.</td></tr><tr><td>*41</td><td>Call Forwarding No Answer to Voicemail – Activation</td><td>Sends calls to voicemail when you do not answer your phone.</td></tr><tr><td>*35</td><td>Call Forwarding No Answer to Voicemail – Deactivation</td><td>Deactivates the Call Forwarding No Answer to Voice Mail service.</td></tr><tr><td>*94</td><td>Not Reachable (Office Hours) – Activation</td><td>Forwards all incoming calls to a different number when your device is not registered on the network during office hours. After dialing the assigned code, dial the phone number to redirect calls to, followed by the pound key (#). e.g. *9412345678.</td></tr><tr><td>*95</td><td>Not Reachable (Office Hours) – Deactivation</td><td>Turns off the Call Forwarding Not Reachable Service for office hours.</td></tr><tr><td>*81</td><td>Not Reachable (Outside Office Hours) – Activation</td><td>Forwards all incoming calls to a different number when your device is not registered on the network outside office hours. After dialing the assigned code, dial the phone number to redirect calls to, followed by the pound key (#). e.g. *8112345678.</td></tr><tr><td>*82</td><td>Not Reachable (Outside Office Hours) – Deactivation</td><td>Turns off the Call Forwarding Not Reachable Service outside office hours.</td></tr><tr><td>*31</td><td>Caller ID Delivery Blocking – Persistent Activation</td><td>Activates the Calling Line ID Delivery Blocking service on all calls. When the extension makes calls to the SIP trunk, the outbound caller ID will never be delivered.</td></tr><tr><td>*32</td><td>Caller ID Delivery Blocking – Persistent Deactivation</td><td>Deactivates the Calling Line ID Delivery Blocking service.</td></tr><tr><td>*65</td><td>Caller ID Delivery – Per Call</td><td>Displays your calling line ID for outbound calls on a per-call basis. Before placing a call, dial the assigned code. e.g. *6512345678.</td></tr><tr><td>*67</td><td>Caller ID Delivery Blocking – Per Call</td><td>Activates the Calling Line ID Delivery Blocking service on a per-call basis. For example, if set up the PBX always delivers the outbound caller ID when making the call to the SIP trunk, but now wants to not deliver the outbound caller ID for the current call, just prepend *67 when dialing. e.g. *6712345678.</td></tr><tr><td>*68</td><td>Call Park</td><td>Park a call against your extension or another extension. Once a call is parked, it can be retrieved from another phone by using the Call Retrieve Feature Access Code. To park a call, transfer an active call to *68 followed by the extension to park the call on, or # to park the call on your own extension. e.g. transferring an active call to *68 will park to the caller itself, to *68103 will park to the extension 103.</td></tr><tr><td>*58</td><td>Group Call Park</td><td>"Parks" a call against the first available extension in a Park Group. Once a call is parked, it can be retrieved from another phone by using the Call Retrieve Feature Access Code. To park a call, transfer an active call to *58 followed by #.</td></tr><tr><td>*88</td><td>Call Retrieve</td><td>Used to retrieve a parked call. Enter *88 followed by the extension that call is parked against. If the call is parked against your own extension, press the # key.</td></tr><tr><td>*44</td><td>Call Recording Start</td><td>Starts a recording if a user has On Demand with User-Initiated Start or saves an entire recording in the On Demand mode.</td></tr><tr><td>*45</td><td>Call Recording Stop</td><td>Stops a recording in the On Demand with User-Initiated Start.</td></tr><tr><td>*48</td><td>Call Recording Pause</td><td>Pauses an active recording in the Always with Pause/Resume, On Demand with User Initiated Start, or On Demand modes.</td></tr><tr><td>*49</td><td>Call Recording Resume</td><td>Resumes a paused recording in the Always with Pause/Resume, On Demand with User Initiated Start, or On Demand modes.</td></tr><tr><td>*54</td><td>Call Transfer</td><td>To transfer a call, dial *54 followed by the target number (extension or phone number). For example, dialing *54123456# will transfer the call to number 123456, whether it's an extension or phone number.</td></tr><tr><td>*55</td><td>Direct Voicemail Transfer</td><td>Transfers a call directly to voicemail. The call can be transferred to your voice mailbox or to any other voice mailbox. For example, to transfer a call to another user's voicemail, press the Transfer soft key, then enter *55 followed by the user's extension. e.g. transferring an active call to *55 will transfer to your voice mailbox; *55103 will transfer to extension 103's voice mailbox.</td></tr><tr><td>*56</td><td>Shared Voicemail Access</td><td>To access shared voicemail from an IP phone, softphone app, or any other SIP endpoint, dial *56 followed by the shared voicemail number.</td></tr><tr><td>*57</td><td>Voicemail Access</td><td>You can access your personal voice mailbox from your own phone, or from any other phone registered to your extension, by dialing *57.When prompted, enter your voicemail password (PIN), then press #.</td></tr><tr><td>*63</td><td>Silent Call Monitor</td><td>Silent Call Monitor allows a supervisor to eavesdrop on a call conversation. For example, if 102 is on a call, other granted users can dial *63102 and listen on 102's call without being discovered.</td></tr><tr><td>*97</td><td>Directed Call Pickup</td><td>Answers calls ringing on another user's line. Enter the assigned access code followed by the extension of the user whose call is to be picked up.</td></tr><tr><td>*98</td><td>Group Call Pickup</td><td>Enables you to pick up calls within an assigned call pickup group. The call pickup group is determined by an administrator. When you dial the call pickup code, the ringing phone in the group is answered. If more than one phone is ringing, Call Pickup will answer the call that has been ringing the longest.</td></tr><tr><td>*78</td><td>Do Not Disturb – Activation</td><td>Activates the Do Not Disturb feature. When Do Not Disturb is enabled, your phone does not ring and all calls were rejected by status code 486.</td></tr><tr><td>*79</td><td>Do Not Disturb – Deactivation</td><td>Disables the Do Not Disturb Feature.</td></tr><tr><td>*69</td><td>Last Call Return</td><td>Dials the last number that called your phone.</td></tr><tr><td>*66</td><td>Last Number Redial</td><td>Redials the last number placed from your phone.</td></tr><tr><td>*77</td><td>Anonymous Call Rejection – Activation</td><td>Allows users to reject incoming calls from callers who have blocked caller ID information.</td></tr><tr><td>*87</td><td>Anonymous Call Rejection – Deactivation</td><td>This feature disables the ability to reject incoming calls from callers who have blocked their caller ID information.</td></tr><tr><td>*74</td><td>Speed Dial (1-Digit)</td><td>Allows the user to associate one-digit (2 through 9) speed dial codes with frequently called or hard to remember phone numbers. To assign the phone number 12345 to speed dial code 5, simply dial *74512345. To delete the association with code 5, dial <em>745</em>.</td></tr><tr><td>*75</td><td>Speed Dial (2-Digit)</td><td>Allows the user to associate two-digit (00 through 99) speed dial codes with frequently called or hard to remember phone numbers. To assign the phone number 033723428 to speed dial code 06, simply dial *7506033723428. To delete the association with code 06, dial <em>7506</em>.</td></tr><tr><td>*76</td><td>Anonymous Outbound Call – Activation</td><td>Enables persistent anonymous outbound calling. Once successfully activated this feature, when making a call to trunk, in the INVITE message, the user of the From header will be set as "anonymous".</td></tr><tr><td>*86</td><td>Anonymous Outbound Call – Deactivation</td><td>Disables persistent anonymous outbound calling.</td></tr><tr><td>*52</td><td>Anonymous Call – Per Call</td><td>This feature allows you to activate the Anonymous Call service on a per-call basis. For example, by dialing *5212345678, the caller ID will be changed to ‘anonymous’ when the call is sent to the SIP trunk.</td></tr><tr><td>*62</td><td>Per-Call Anonymous Deactivation</td><td>Disables the Anonymous call service on a per-call basis.</td></tr><tr><td>*15</td><td>Call Bridge</td><td>Allows a user with Shared Call Appearance, Anywhere, Executive, or Flexible Seating Guest service to join a bridge.</td></tr><tr><td>*33</td><td>Automatic Callback – Activation</td><td>Monitors a busy line and notifies the user as soon as the line becomes free.</td></tr><tr><td>*43</td><td>Automatic Callback – Deactivation</td><td>Disables the Automatic Callback feature.</td></tr><tr><td>*46</td><td>Paging / Intercom – Activation</td><td>Activates the Page/Intercom on a per-call basis.</td></tr><tr><td>*36</td><td>Set Agent to Ready</td><td>Change the agent state to "Ready" of the queue. Dial *36 to change the agent state to "Ready" of all queues that the agent belongs to; Dial *368000 to change the agent state to "Ready" of the queue that number is 8000.</td></tr><tr><td>*37</td><td>Set Agent to Not Ready</td><td>Change agent state to "Not Ready" of the queue. Dial *37 to change agent state to "Not Ready" of all queues that the agent belongs; Dial *378000 to change agent state to "Not Ready" of the queue that number is 8000.</td></tr><tr><td>*38</td><td>Log Agent In to Queue</td><td>Log the agent into queue. Dial *38 to log into all queues that the agent belongs to; Dial *388000 to log into the queue that number is 8000. If the queue is checked "Set agent to Ready automatically", the agent state will be changed to "Ready", otherwise will be "Not Ready".</td></tr><tr><td>*39</td><td>Log Agent Out of Queue</td><td>Log the agent out of the queue. Dial *39 to log out of all queues; Dial *398000 to log out of the queue which number is 8000.</td></tr><tr><td>*70</td><td>Hot Desking Login</td><td>To log into a hot desking device the user dials *70[Extension Number] (e.g. *70100). The Announcement service answers and prompts the user to enter their voice mailbox PIN number. Upon completion a confirmation prompt is played and the device is reprovisioned for the user's extension.</td></tr><tr><td>*71</td><td>Hot Desking Logout</td><td>To log out from a hot desking device, the user dials *71. The Announcement service answers and prompts the user has been logged out. Upon completion, a confirmation prompt is played, and the device is reprovisioned for hot desking.</td></tr><tr><td>*11</td><td>Call Flip</td><td>Transfer calls from one device to another quickly and effortlessly with Call Flip.</td></tr><tr><td>*12</td><td>Rest Calls</td><td>Terminate the calls that are either received or made by the user.</td></tr><tr><td>*13</td><td>Clear Push Notification Information</td><td>Remove the user's push notifications information.</td></tr><tr><td>*20</td><td>PIN-Based Calling</td><td>An extension can authenticate an outbound call to 123456 using a voicemail PIN. For example, by dialing <em>20102</em>123456, the PBX prompts the caller to enter 102's voicemail PIN via DTMF. Once verified, the call is placed.</td></tr><tr><td>*16</td><td>Night Mode Activation/Deactivation</td><td>This Feature Access Code toggles Night Mode on or off. If tenant-level Night Mode is disabled, dialing this FAC enables it. If tenant-level Night Mode is enabled, dialing this FAC disables it. To enable or disable Night Mode for a specific service, dial *16xxx, where xxx is the number of the ring group, virtual receptionist, or queue.</td></tr><tr><td>*64</td><td>Set Default Outbound Caller ID for an Extension</td><td>This Feature Access Code (FAC) allows an extension user to assign a default outbound caller ID, which will be used for all outgoing calls placed through a trunk when no caller ID is explicitly specified. For example: If extension 101 dials *64123456, the PBX will configure 123456 as the default outbound caller ID for that extension. Moving forward, any outbound calls made from extension 101 will automatically present 123456 as the caller ID, unless another caller ID is specified during call setup.</td></tr></tbody></table>
